# Share early, share often

In the open source software world there has long been a mantra of "Release early, release often." This served many purposes to the mechanics of the open source way of working but ensured that people were able to keep on top of the codebase allowing them to contribute. In some ways, the idea of release early and often had much to do with the tools of the time. Releasing would mark a point in time to the development of the codebase by marking a particular revision. These days the tools make it much easier to pick up the codebase at any moment in time and move forward or revert no matter what changes might have been made. However, the word "Release" always seemed old to me. It conjures up images of boxed software on shelves. In addition, when it comes to other disciplines that can benefit from open source methodologies, it implies a finished product. For these reasons I've decided to make a slight change to "Share early, share often."

When I was still doing tech management in the open source world I had a friend I was working with who was new to that world. This friend was quite shy about sharing his code. He wanted it to be at a point where he could be proud of his work before sharing it. I understand that feeling, its difficult to share if you feel like your best work isn't represented. However, my encouragement to my friend was "if you share from the very first line of code, others have the opportunity to help your best work be even better." I believe this in code, in writing, in scientific research, music, art, design, every endeavor.

The heart of open source was always the power in the community of contributions. The point of it all is that more minds cooperating makes the end result stronger. If we are brave enough to show our work from the very first line we allow others to start contributing from the beginning. We bring in the exponential growth of the work from the beginning. 



### Note: I have shared this short article on github, from the first draft. https://github.com/dcm-moz/share-early